##Code development

This code was developed using ARCGIS Pro and Visual Studio Code. I coded it to process JSON files, create a shapefile and then populate the shapefile with data. I used data from the 2018 New Orleans Land Value dataset. I ran into several issues over the course of development including typos, missing modules, missing files, and incorrect directory syntax but these issues were figured out some on my own and some with help from the professor.

##How the code works and what it does

This code is meant to read the JSON file and create and populate a shapefile with data. The script reads the JSON file no_tax.json and loads it into a Python dictionary tax_json. Then the script assumes that the tax_json['data'] contains rows where column 9 holds geometric information in Well-Known Text format. It converts this WKT representation into an arcpy geometry object using arcpy.FromWKT. It then prepares the shapefile workspace. It sets up the path and name for the output shapefile, fcname. The workspace specifies where it will be saved and if the file already exists, it deletes it to ensure a clean start. It then creates a shapefile with polygon geometry and a spatial reference WGS84 4236. Then, it lists the existing fields in the new shapefile using arcpy.da.Describe. To process and define the data fields, it extracts metadata from tax_json['meta']['view']['columns']. It defines the field types as TEXT and LONG and shortens field names to 10 characters and replaces spaces and periods with underscores in field names. After this, it adds these fields to the shapefile and maps them to their respective types. Then it appends SHAPE@, a field representing geometry data, to the list. To insert the data into the shapefiel it uses an InsertCursor to write rows into the shapefile. It skips the WKT geometry column during iteration, replaces None values with empty strings then adds the geometry from earlier to the end of each row. Lastly, it inserts the row to the shapefile, completing the conversion of the JSON data into a shapefile.
